Add PromQL reference docs for HTTP API and limitations (#148783)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/query-languages/promql.md

## How does it work? \[promql-how\]

When you use the Prometheus-compatible HTTP API or embed PromQL in an {{esql}} query through the `PROMQL` source command, {{es}} parses PromQL into **{{esql}}** logical plans, evaluates those plans against metrics in [time series data streams](docs-content://manage-data/data-store/data-streams/time-series-data-stream-tsds.md) (TSDS), and returns tabular or Prometheus-shaped results.

Execution relies on **the same {{esql}} compute engine** {{es}} uses when you invoke the `TS` source command.

**Programmatic access (Prometheus-compatible clients)**\
Use the `/_prometheus/` HTTP API so tools that speak the [Prometheus query API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/), for example Grafana, can run PromQL against {{es}}.

**{{esql}} queries**\
Use the {{esql}} `PROMQL` source command when you want PromQL as part of a piped {{esql}} query.

## In this section

Prometheus-compatible HTTP API: `query`, `query_range`, and metadata-style discovery endpoints under `/_prometheus/`.

> Limitations: Ways behavior differs from upstream Prometheus, including unsupported PromQL constructs, HTTP quirks, instant-query nuances, staleness semantics, exemplars, and related topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Limitations: How behavior differs from Prometheus, including unsupported PromQL constructs, HTTP quirks, instant-query nuances, staleness semantics, exemplars, and related topics.
```

## How does it work? [promql-how]

When you use the Prometheus-compatible HTTP API or embed PromQL in an {{esql}} query through the `PROMQL` source command, {{es}} parses PromQL into **{{esql}}** logical plans, evaluates those plans against metrics in [time series data streams](docs-content://manage-data/data-store/data-streams/time-series-data-stream-tsds.md) (TSDS), and returns tabular or Prometheus-shaped results.

Execution relies on **the same {{esql}} compute engine** {{es}} uses when you invoke the `TS` source command.

**Programmatic access (Prometheus-compatible clients)**\
Use the `/_prometheus/` HTTP API so tools that speak the [Prometheus query API](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/api/), for example Grafana, can run PromQL against {{es}}.

**{{esql}} queries**\
Use the {{esql}} `PROMQL` source command when you want PromQL as part of a piped {{esql}} query.

## In this section

* [HTTP API](promql/promql-http-api.md): Prometheus-compatible `/_prometheus/` endpoints for queries and discovery.
* [Limitations](promql/promql-limitations.md): Differences from upstream Prometheus and unsupported areas today.

> * [`PROMQL` command ({{esql}})](/reference/query-languages/esql/commands/promql.md): PromQL inside piped {{esql}} queries.

Reviewer: Nit: this is not part of this section, maybe move under "Relevant sections"

Author: Done: PROMQL command is under Relevant sections; In this section lists only the HTTP API and Limitations pages.
